## When does a Physical system compute? [1] ##
  
The research could suggest, every time we type a line of code its considered to be an abstract theory. The computer then encodes this theory into a physical representation of what we have coded. It then proceeds to turn this physical representation into an abstract output, for example the answer to a maths problem. Another important concept brought up is the ‘representation relation’. It is described to cross ‘the divide between the abstract and the physical’. 
The idea of encoded communication (example being hieroglyphics) was an interesting point. The similarities of hieroglyphics to modern day encoded communication is apparent, Morse code for example. The research seems to indicate turning the abstract ‘code’ or the hieroglyphic into a form human can understand is a form of computation where we the humans are the computers. When humans use flowcharts as described in [2] the link between computers is more apparent. As argued later flowcharts makes humans think as a computer would, step by step.

## Experimental Investigations of the Utility of Detailed Flowcharts in Programming. [2] ##

This paper compiles several experiments where programming students are split into groups, some are given flowcharts (sometimes of differing complexity) others are not. They are then told to complete an exercise to do with programming and the results are then compared. The results are all the same; there is no difference between the subjects who used the flowcharts and those who didn’t. This is not surprising, the process of learning to become a programmer teaches one to think in a logical step by step manner. The main function of a Flowchart is to provide a framework to help one think in a logical manner. Giving this tool to a group who can provide themselves the function that the flowchart does, will produce minimal results. If for example flowcharts were given to a group of non-programmers and asked to complete similar tasks, the results will probably be very different. Further research would have to be done. 

## A Fast Procedure for Computing the Distance Between Complex Objects in Three-Dimensional Space [3] ## 
This paper provides us with an algorithm to calculate the distance between two objects in any R dimensions. The authors say the algorithm is designed to be more efficient when the objects are seen in three dimensions. In addition, they show how the algorithm can be used to calculate whether or not two objects are colliding and by how much. 


## Go to Statement Considered Harmful [4] #
Research describes a ‘go to’ statement to perform a one-way movement of what line the machine will execute. The Author states “the quality of programmers is a decreasing function of the density of go to statements in the program they produce.” The paper suggests that a go to statement inhibits the observer’s ability to understand what is happening during a codes execution (variable values etc.). This will result in it being ‘terribly hard to find a meaningful set of variables’ and us losing our intellectual grasp of the procedure. The possible implications to industry practice? For example: you must fix a bug, not being able to track the value of the variables causing the bug will be a serious barrier to overcoming said bug. Because of the age of this paper some may argue that, tools may somewhat mitigate this.  The debugger found in ‘Pycharm’ IDE for example. In addition, the use of flowcharts, could help track the flow of control. Further research in this topic led to the article titled “Global variable considered harmful” [5]. Reference to Edsger W. Dijkstra’s work is present in the article. The authors explain how the use of global variables can, like a go to statement can make understanding code difficult. They argue that a variable that gets used across a large program and more importantly changed during this program makes understanding hard. 

## Reference list ##
[1] Horsman C, Stepney S, Wagner RC, Kendon V. 2014 When does a physical system compute?, The Royal Society, Vol. 470, No. 2169, July 2014.
 [2] B. Shneiderman, R. Mayer, D. McKay and P. Heller, Experimental Investigations of the Utility of Detailed Flowcharts in Programming, Communications of the ACM, Volume 20, Issue 6, June 1977, pp. 373 - 381
[3]Elmer G. Gilbert, Fellow, IEEE, Daniel W. Johnson, and S. Saythiya Keerth, IEEE journal of robotics and automation, vol. 4, no.2 April 1968
[4] Edsger W. Dijkstra, “go to statement considered harmful”, Communications of the ACM, Volume 11 Issue 3, March 1968 Pages 147-148.
[5] W. Wulf, Mary Shaw, “Global variable considered harmful”, ACM SIGPLAN Notices, Volume 8 Issue 2, February 1973, Pages 28 - 34 
